Patrick Little
September 2, 2014
Web Programming Fundamentals
Activity ProblemSolving




PROBLEM1
Define the problem-
A man is crossing a river on his boat. He has three items with him. A cat, a parrot, and a bag of seeds.
His boat is only big enough to carry him and one of his items. He has to be careful who he leaves alone
because the cat will eat the parrot and the parrot will eat the seed. How does he get all passengers to the other side
without leaving the wrong ones alone together? You have to get all the passengers to the other side without leaving
the cat and parrot alone, or the parrot and seed alone.
Break the problem apart-
The constraints are that you cant leave certain passengers alone with others and that only one passenger
can be onboard at a time. the sub goals are getting all passengers across and getting them across one at a time.
The other sub goal is to not leave the cat with the parrot or the parrot with the seed.
Identify potential solutions-
A potential solution would be to take a passenger one at a time across the river and also keep a passenger
with you when you go back across so you can exchange the passenger to get the order right.
evaluate each potential solution-
This solution works and is good. It's not a crazy solution but it solves the problem. This solution would work every
time with this same criteria.
Choose a solution and develop a plan to implement it-
Here is my solution to the problem. The man will take the parrot across the river first and drop him off. Then
he will go back and pick up the cat and take him across, but he can't leave the cat with the parrot because the cat
will eat the parrot so he drops the cat off but takes the parrot with him. then he picks the last passenger up which is
the seed but he can't have two passengers onboard so he leaves the parrot there and takes the seed to the other side
with the cat. Then he goes and gets the parrot again and brings him back to the shore with the rest of the passengers.
This solution works out perfect. All passengers get to the other side without being by the passenger they will eat. The
trip is a bit longer but it works.


PROBLEM2
Define the problem-
You have 20 socks in a jar, 10 black socks, 6 brown socks, and 4 white socks. Turn the light off and select a sock.
Once you select a sock you can turn the light on and see what you selected. What is the smallest number of socks you
need to select to guarantee you will get one matching pair? What is the smallest number of socks you
need to select to guarantee you will get one matching pair of each color? Think of how many pairs of socks there are
and how many you have to pick at random to solve your problem.
Break the problem apart-
The sub goal is one matching pair and the other sub goal is one matching pair of each color.
The constraints are you have to do it at random.
Identify potential solutions-
A potential solution would be to select socks at random until you get a match, once you get a match you have one of
your answers. Then keep going until you select a match for all three.
evaluate each potential solution-
This solution will work every time. In this senario picking socks blindly, finding matches, it'll work no matter what.
It's a process of elimination.
Choose a solution and develop a plan to implement it-
My solution is to draw a sock at random. There is only 3 different pairs of socks so once you draw your fourth random
sock it is guaranteed that you have a pair of at least one color, because even if your first selection is a brown sock,
your second is a white sock, and your third is a black sock, your fourth selection has to be one of those 3 colors you
drew, therefore you are guaranteed a pair on your 4th selection. To get one matching pair of all colors is the same
thing, you just draw more socks. Keep drawing socks at random one at a time. At worse case senario you have drawn 16
socks which means you have a black and brown pair but maybe not a white pair, but that means there is only white left
so just draw 2 more times and you will get all three pairs. So if you draw 18 times you are guaranteed to have all
three pairs.


PROBLEM3
Define the problem-
A girl counts the fingers on her left hand starting from one and counting endlessly. She starts at her thumb,
then pointer finger, then middle finger, then ring finger, and then pinky finger. She then reverses
and goes to ring finger, middle finger, pointer finger, and thumb. She then reverses again.
If she does this over and over, what finger will she stop on when she gets to 10, 100, and 1000? Think of the order
she counts her finger and what pattern goes with it.
Break the problem apart-
The constraints is that she counts a specific way, so you have to follow her pattern.
The sub goals is to find the way she counts and find the pattern that goes with it.
Identify potential solutions-
A potential solution would be to count on your fingers to find the pattern. Once you find the pattern see what
fingers land on multiples of 10.
evaluate each potential solution-
This might not be the best way to come up with a solution to a problem like this, but giving this exact problem it
works perfect and is fast.
Choose a solution and develop a plan to implement it-
THe easiest way to do this is to find the pattern, so count on your fingers just like this girl did. You will notice
10 lands on your pointer finger, 20 lands on your ring finger and so does 30, 40 and 50 lands on your pointer finger,
60 and 70 land on your ring finger, 80 and 90 land on your pointer finger, and 100 and 110 land on your ring finger.
See the pattern? it bounces back and forth from your pointer to your ring finger. During sequals of 10 you will have it
land twice on your pointer in a row and then twice on your ring finger in a row, and it just goes back and forth,
besides the very first sequal of 10 which lands on your pointer and then switches. It's a pattern. So you now now 10
lands on your pointer and 100 lands on your ring finger. If you keep going to 1000 you will see it lands on your
pointer finger. This is a very easy way of doing it once you understand the pattern.

